How to Play Farkle:
Players:
1. There must be at least two players to start the game.
2. Players will have six dice.
3. For each player turn, all six dice will be rolled and at least one point dice must be set aside (1's, 5's, three of a kind).
4. The player then decides whether they want to continue to roll the dice not set aside to earn more points, or to stop their turn and collect points.
5. When rolling the dice, if no point dice are shown, a Farkle occurs, the player losses any points they saved up and they end their turn.
6. If the player decides to stop, any point dice set aside is used as points recorded for the player, then the next player goes.
7. If a player rolls all six dice in one turn that are point dice and sets them aside, they must roll all six dice again at least one more to collect points.
How to Enter the Game:
1. When starting, players are not allowed to collect points until they roll at least 1,000 points within one turn.
2. If a player does not roll 1,000 points in one turn when starting, then their turn ends, and they must wait for their next turn.
3. It can take players multiple turns to enter the game and start collecting points by continuing to roll or stopping.
4. Once players do earn at least 1,000 points in a turn, their turn ends, but they will be allowed to collect more points on their subsequent turns, unlocking the continue to roll option.
How to Earn Points:
There are three ways to earn points.
1. Rolling a 1 results in 100 points when setting the dice aside.
2. Rolling a 5 results in 50 points when setting the dice aside.
3. Rolling a three-of-a-kind results in that value times 100, therefore rolling three 2s is 200 points and three 5s is 500 points and so on.
An exception is rolling three 1s that results in 1,000 points instead of 100 points.
How To Win:
1. To win a game of Farkle, a player must record exactly 10,000 points.
2. If a player goes above the 10,000 points, all other players are given one turn to try and beat that player's score.
3. If another player is able to beat the player's score, then they are declared the winner until another player beats their score.
4. If no players beat the leading player's score, then the leading player is declared the winner.